Develop a physical security control plan for an organization:

Step 1
As a member of a cybersecurity team, you work for a corporation bidding on a government
contract. All confidential information must remain onsite. Therefore, the contract prohibits
saving confidential information to USB flash drives or other removable storage devices usable
for transporting files offsite.
The corporation must improve its security measures to prevent this type of data breach.
Currently, the corporation has the following security measures:
• The server room is locked. Each IT staff member has a key to the server room.b
• The door to the shared workspaces is not locked. However, a sign outside this door clearlyb
states, “Authorized personnel only”, and a receptionist screens all visitors.b
• All employees have their own usernames and passwords.b
• All employees have been instructed not to plug USB flash drives or external hard disk drivesb
into their work computers.b
Your supervisor tasks you with developing a plan for meeting the contract’s requirements.
Insert the picture of your plan below. 

Step 2
Identify at least three new physical controls to implement on the first floor. Use the controls
and placements that you chose in Step 1.
Explain your reasoning for each control, including its position. 

Step 3
Identify three environmental controls to implement on the first floor. These controls must
minimize the loss of valuable data in the event of a fire, natural disaster, or power failure.
Explain your reasoning for each choice. 


**Response**

Security guards will be stationed at either elevator. A receptionist and security desk will be front and center in the lobby, greeting all who enter. 
Security cameras will be placed outside the power supply room and outside the server room. A key card scanner will authorize entrance into the hallway
where the offices and server room are located. The server room will additionaly be protected by a biometric scanner. 

In addition to the above security controls, a few more should be implemented. First there should be an alert system to notify the IT team when a hard 
drive or USB is olugged in to a computer. Second, an additional security guard should be stationed at the main entrance to the building. Third, employees should
need key cards to access devices prior to their login credentials. 

To address environmental threats, a fire detection and supression system should be set up in the server room. The server room should also be consistantly
cleaned and kept at a good temperature. Backup generators should be in place to continue operations and protect data in emergency conditions. 






