Microcredential 1; Module 2

05/26/2025

Activity -- Create a Risk Assessment
  -- the guided steps will be provided 

Imagine that you’re starting a new job as a cybersecurity expert for a tech company headquartered in South Florida. The headquarters is on a 
main boulevard near the beach. This building contains servers for storing backups. Employees use company computers and wifi for network access. 
Your supervisor tasks you with completing a risk assessment for the company. To start, you’ll determine the risks. 

Step 1
Identify the company’s external and internal risks. As you work to identify risks, think of the following
questions:
  • What external risks might the company face given the location of the servers and company
    headquarters?
  • What internal risks might the company face with employees working remotely and at
    headquarters?
Explain why the company should consider each risk that you identify.

Step 2
Describe one consequence or impact for each risk you identified in Step 1. Explain how each risk can
lead to the impact described.

Step 3
Determine the tolerability of the risks that you identified in Step 1. Perform the following tasks for each
risk:
  • Rate your company’s tolerance for each risk using the system discussed before: low, moderate,
    high, or very high.
  • Describe the risk’s frequency and the extent of the harm that it can cause.
  • Explain why you rated the risk low, moderate, high, or very high.


**RISK ASSESSMENT**

1: Identify Risks
  External risks -- Hurricane; the backup storage location is at risk of destruction in the event of a hurricane.
                 -- Remote Workers; Low security of home devices/networks can lead to vulnerabilities for malware and attackers
  Internal risks -- Remote Workers; Failures and IT issues with at-home devices can interfere with operations

2: Consequences/Impacts of each risk
  Hurricane -- Can lead to destroyed data storage devices, losing data and possibly having further affects on reputation and even legal matters
  Unsecured home devices/networks -- Can open work networks to vulnerabilities for attackers and malware to exploit, causing downtime, financial loss, etc
  Equipment failures -- Can delay operations due to the possible delays associated with replacing/fixing at-home equipment, causing operational delays

3: Risk Tolerations
  Hurricane -- Tolerance: Low -- Frequency: Low -- Risk Rating: Very High
    Reasoning: A hurricane destroying the data storage location isn't likely to happen often but if it does happen it can be catastrophic to an organization.

  Unsecured home devices/network -- Tolerance: Moderate -- Frequency: Moderate -- Risk Rating: Moderate
    Reasoning: Difficult to ensure secure home networks but easy to have password requirements. This can have extreme consequences however they can be mitigated
               by strong security policies/efforts such as EDR softwares, VPN requirements, DNS filtering, MFA, password requirements, etc.

  Equipment failures -- Tolerance: High -- Frequency: Low -- Risk Rating: Low
    Reasoning: At-home equipment will fail at times, however this is not frequent and unless the organization provides company owned devices, there isn't
               much that can be done so this risk must be tolerated. 



